---
group: release-notes
title: Adobe Commerce 2.3.7-p3 Release Notes
---

{{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.7-p3 is a security release that provides security fixes that enhance your {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.7 or {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.3.7 deployment. It provides fixes for vulnerabilities that have been identified in the previous release ({{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.7-p2).

{:.bs-callout-info}
PHP 7.3 reached end of support in December 2021, and {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.x and {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.3.x will reach end of support in September 2022. **We strongly recommend planning your upgrade now to {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.x or {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.4.x deployment to help maintain PCI compliance**.

{:.bs-callout-info}
Releases may contain backward-incompatible changes (BIC). To review minor backward-incompatible changes, see [BIC reference]({{page.baseurl}}/release-notes/backward-incompatible-changes/reference.html). (Major backward-incompatible issues are described in [BIC highlights]({{page.baseurl}}/release-notes/backward-incompatible-changes/index.html). Not all releases introduce major BICs.)

## What's in this release?

This security patch includes:

*  All hotfixes that have been released for the preceding patch release
*  Security enhancements
*  Two security bug fixes. See [Adobe Security Bulletin](https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/magento/apsb21-86.html).

### Hotfixes included in this release

{{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.7-p3 includes resolution of all issues that were addressed by the following hotfixes, which were provided for {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.3.7-p2:

*  `MC-43048__set_rate_limits__2.3.7-p1.patch`. This patch addresses an issue where the Web API is unable to process a message that contains more than 20 items in the array in Adobe Commerce 2.4.3 deployments. See the [Web API unable to process requests with more than 20 items in array](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406893342093-Web-API-unable-to-process-requests-with-more-than-20-items-in-array) Knowledge Base article.

*  `MDVA-43395_EE_2.4.3-p1_COMPOSER_v1.patch` and `MDVA-43443_EE_2.3.4_COMPOSER_v1.patch`. These security patches address an arbitrary code execution vulnerability. See [Security updates available for Adobe Commerce APSB22-12](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4426353041293-Security-updates-available-for-Adobe-Commerce-APSB22-12) Knowledge Base article.

* `AC-384__Fix_Incompatible_PHP_Method__2.3.7-p1_ce.patch`. This patch addresses a fatal PHP error that occurred during upgrade. See the [Adobe Commerce upgrade 2.4.3, 2.3.7-p1 PHP Fatal error Hotfix](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408021533069-Adobe-Commerce-upgrade-2-4-3-2-3-7-p1-PHP-Fatal-error-Hotfix) Knowledge Base article. 

### Security highlights

Security improvements for this release improve compliance with the latest security best practices, including:

*  Email variable usage was deprecated back in 2.3.4 as part of a security risk mitigation in favor of a more strict variable syntax. This legacy behavior has been fully removed in this release as a continuation of that security risk mitigation.

   As a result, email or newsletter templates that worked in previous versions of Magento may not work correctly after upgrading to Adobe Commerce 2.4.4 or Magento Open Source 2.4.4. Affected templates include admin overrides, themes, child themes, and templates from custom modules or third-party extensions. Your deployment may still be affected even after using the [Upgrade compatibility tool](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-operations/upgrade-guide/upgrade-compatibility-tool/overview.html?lang=en) to fix deprecated usages. See [Migrating custom email templates]({{page.baseurl}}/frontend-dev-guide/templates/template-email-migration.html) for information about potential effects and guidelines for migrating affected templates.

*  OAuth access tokens and password reset tokens are now encrypted when stored in the database. <!--- AC-520 1323-->

*  Password reset tokens are no longer stored in plain text in the database.

*  Validation has been strengthened to prevent the upload of non alpha-numeric file extensions. <!--- AC-479-->

*  Swagger is now disabled by default when {{ site.data.var.ee }} is in production mode. <!--- AC-1450-->

*  Developers can now configure the limit on the size of arrays accepted by {{ site.data.var.ee }} RESTful endpoints on a per-endpoint basis. See [API security](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/get-started/api-security.html). <!--- AC-465-->

*  Added mechanisms for limiting the size and number of resources that a user can request through a web API on a system-wide basis, and for overriding the defaults on individual modules. This resolves the issue addressed by `MC-43048__set_rate_limits__2.4.3.patch`. See [API security](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/get-started/api-security.html). <!--- AC-1120-->

## Installation and upgrade instructions

For instructions on downloading and applying security patches (including patch 2.3.7-p3), see [Quick start install]({{site.baseurl}}/guides/v2.4/install-gde/composer.html).

## More information?

For general information about security patches, see [Introducing the New Security Patch Release](https://community.magento.com/t5/Magento-DevBlog/Introducing-the-New-Security-Patch-Release/ba-p/141287).
