guides/v2.2/ext-best-practices/tutorials/serialized-to-json-data-upgrade.md, before:

---
layout: default
group: ext-best-practices
subgroup: Tutorials
title: Serialized to JSON data upgrade
menu_title: Serialized to JSON data upgrade
menu_order: 1000
version: 2.2
github_link: ext-best-practices/tutorials/data-upgrade-script.md
---

## Overview

The following tutorial lists the steps needed to create an upgrade script that converts the data stored in the database from the default PHP serialized format to JSON format.

## Before you begin

Identify the data you need to convert to JSON in the database.
If your extension stores serialized data or adds serialized data to Magento entities, you must convert them to JSON format to work with Magento 2.2 and above.

This tutorial uses the following framework API in the following ways:

* `\Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverter` - This class converts values for a field in a table from one format to another. 
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory` - This class creates instances of the `FieldDataConverter` with the appropriate data converter implementation.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\DataConverterInterface` - This interface is for classes that convert data between different formats or types of data.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierInterface` - Interface for classes that add a condition to the database query to target specific entries.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory` - This class creates instances of specific implementations of `QueryModifierInterface`.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\InQueryModifier` - An implementation of the `QueryModifierInterface` that adds an IN condition to a query.

  You can create your own query modifier or use any of the ones listed in the `app/etc/di.xml` file.

* `\Magento\Framework\Module\Manager` - This class checks the status of a module.

## Step 1: Create the basic upgrade script
{:#step-1}

The upgrade script is what gets run during the upgrade step of your extension's [lifecycle][1].
Create the `UpgradeData.php` file in the `Setup` directory inside your extension's root directory.

Inside the file, create the class `UpgradeData` which implements `\Magento\Framework\Setup\UpgradeDataInterface`.

The following is an example of the content for your upgrade script.

{% collapsible Show upgrade script content%}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
namespace Magento\CustomModule\Setup;
 
class UpgradeData implements \Magento\Framework\Setup\UpgradeDataInterface
{
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory
   */
  private $fieldDataConverterFactory;
 
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory
   */
  private $queryModifierFactory;
 
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator
   */
  private $queryGenerator;
 
  /**
   * Constructor
   *
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory $fieldDataConverterFactory
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory $queryModifierFactory
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator $queryGenerator
   */ 
  public function __construct(
      \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory $fieldDataConverterFactory,
      \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory $queryModifierFactory,
      \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator $queryGenerator
  ) {
      $this->fieldDataConverterFactory = $fieldDataConverterFactory;
      $this->queryModifierFactory = $queryModifierFactory;
      $this->queryGenerator = $queryGenerator;
  }
 
  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function upgrade(
      \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup,
      \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleContextInterface $context
  ) {
      if (version_compare($context->getVersion(), '2.0.1', '<')) {
        $this->convertSerializedDataToJson($setup);
      }
  }
 
  /**
   * Upgrade to version 2.0.1, convert data for the sales_order_item.product_options and quote_item_option.value
   * from serialized to JSON format
   *
   * @param \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup
   * @return void
   */ 
  private function convertSerializedDataToJson(\Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup)
  {
      // Upgrade logic here
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 2: Check that the module exists
{:#step-2}

Any module can replace another module in Magento.
If your extension stores data in the tables of another module, make sure the application uses the module before executing the upgrade logic.

Use the `\Magento\Framework\Module\Manager` class to check the status of the module your extension depends on.

Add this dependency in the constructor of your upgrade script class.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
if ($this->moduleManager->isEnabled('Magento_Sales')) {
    // Upgrade logic goes here
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 3: Write the conversion logic
{:#step-3}

The conversion logic in your script depends on how your extension stores the serialized data.

If your extension stores serialized data in different ways, you will need to use different conversion methods.

### Step 3a: Convert data in a column for all rows
{:#step-3a}

Use a `FieldDataConverterFactory` to create a `FieldDataConverter` instance with the appropriate data converter.

You can convert data for a column in a table using the code below.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(SerializedToJson::class);

$fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $setup->getConnection(),
    $setup->getTable('my_table'),
    'entity_id',
    'field'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3b: Convert data in specific rows for a field
{:#step-3b}

| option_id | code           | value                         |
| --------- | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 1         | my_option      | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 2         | another_option | &lt;non-serialized string&gt; |
| 3         | my_option      | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |

If you need to convert specific rows in the column, you can use a query modifier to update values using a condition.

The following code sample upgrades the data for options in the `value` column in the `quote_item_option` table with the code `my_option`.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(
    \Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\SerializedToJson::class
);
     
// Convert data for the option with static name in quote_item_option.value
$queryModifier = $this->queryModifierFactory->create(
  'in',
  [
    'values' => [
      'code' => [
        'my_option'
      ]
    ]
  ]
);
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
  $setup->getConnection(),
  $setup->getTable('quote_item_option'),
  'option_id',
  'value',
  $queryModifier
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}


#### Using values from another table in the condition

| option_id | code                  | value                         |
| --------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 1         | my_custom_option_1001 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 2         | another_option        | &lt;non-serialized string&gt; |
| 3         | my_custom_option_1002 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 4         | my_custom_option_1003 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |

Use the following approach to construct a query condition with values from another table.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
// Convert data for the option with dynamic name in quote_item_option.value
$select = $setup->getConnection()
  ->select()
  ->from(
    $setup->getTable('catalog_product_option'),
    ['option_id']
  )
  ->where('type = ?', 'my_custom_option');
$iterator = $this->queryGenerator->generate('option_id', $select);
foreach ($iterator as $selectByRange) {
  $codes = $setup->getConnection()->fetchCol($selectByRange);
  $codes = array_map(
    function ($id) {
      return 'my_custom_option_' . $id;
    },
    $codes
  );
  $queryModifier = $this->queryModifierFactory->create(
    'in',
    [
      'values' => [
        'code' => $codes
      ]
    ]
  );
  $fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $setup->getConnection(),
    $setup->getTable('quote_item_option'),
    'option_id',
    'value',
    $queryModifier
  ); 
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3c: Convert nested serialized data
{:#step-3c}

If your module uses nested serialized data in the database, create a custom data converter to hold the logic for converting the data.

The following example is a custom data converter class that converts data in the `product_options` column in the `sales_order_item` table.
This field contains nested serialized data that needs conversion.

Since you cannot assume the format of the data when initially converted, the following example also checks the format and uses the appropriate methods to unserialize and serialize the data using the original format.


{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
namespace Magento\CustomModule\Setup;
 
use Magento\Framework\Serialize\Serializer\Serialize;
use Magento\Framework\Serialize\Serializer\Json;
 
/**
 * Serializer used to convert data in product_options field
 */
class SerializedToJsonDataConverter implements \Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\DataConverterInterface
{
    /**
     * @var Serialize
     */ 
    private $serialize;
     
    /**
     * @var Json
     */
    private $json;
     
    /**
     * Constructor
     *
     * @param Serialize $serialize
     * @param Json $json
     */
    public function __construct(
        Serialize $serialize,
        Json $json
    ) {
        $this->serialize = $serialize;
        $this->json = $json;
    }
     
    /**
     * Convert from serialized to JSON format
     *
     * @param string $value
     * @return string
     */
    public function convert($value)
    {
        $isSerialized = $this->isSerialized($value);
        $unserialized = $isSerialized
          ? $this->serialize->unserialize($value)
          : $this->json->unserialize($value);
        if (isset($unserialized['options'])) {
          foreach ($unserialized['options'] as $key => $option) {
            if ($option['option_type'] === 'my_custom_option') {
              $unserialized['options'][$key]['option_value'] = $this->json->serialize(
                $this->serialize->unserialize(
                  $option['option_value']
                )
              );
            }
          }
        }
        if (isset($unserialized['my_option'])) {
          $unserialized['my_option'] = $this->json->serialize(
            $this->serialize->unserialize(
              $unserialized['my_option']
            )
          );
        }
        return $isSerialized
          ? $this->serialize->serialize($unserialized)
          : $this->json->serialize($unserialized);
    }
     
    /**
     * Check if value is serialized string
     *
     * @param string $value
     * @return boolean
     */
    private function isSerialized($value)
    {
        return (boolean) preg_match('/^((s|i|d|b|a|O|C):|N;)/', $value);
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

After creating your custom data converter class, use the `FieldDataConverterFactory` to create a `FieldDataConverter` instance with your custom converter.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}

// Convert options in sales_order_item.product_options
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(
    \Magento\CustomModule\Setup\SerializedToJsonDataConverter::class
  );
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
  $setup->getConnection(),
  $setup->getTable('sales_order_item'),
  'item_id',
  'product_options'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3d: Convert data in a multi-database setup
{:#step-3d}

The Magento Enterprise Edition supports storing Quote, Sales and Inventory data in separate databases.
Use the specific connections for each of these modules to update your extension's stored data for the entities of these modules.

The following code sample gets the Sales module connection and uses it during data update.
{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
/** \Magento\Sales\Setup\SalesSetupFactory $salesSetup */
$salesSetup = $this->salesSetupFactory->create(['setup' => $setup]);
 
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $salesSetup->getConnection(),
    $salesSetup->getTable('sales_order_item'),
    'item_id',
    'product_options'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Related Topics

* [Serialize Library][0]
* [Extension Lifecycle][1]


[0]: {{page.baseurl}}extension-dev-guide/framework/serializer.html "Serialize Library"
[1]: {{page.baseurl}}extension-dev-guide/prepare/lifecycle.html "Extension Lifecycle"

Commit message:

Update content based on comment in Jira ticket

guides/v2.2/ext-best-practices/tutorials/serialized-to-json-data-upgrade.md, after:

---
layout: default
group: ext-best-practices
subgroup: Tutorials
title: Serialized to JSON data upgrade
menu_title: Serialized to JSON data upgrade
menu_order: 1000
version: 2.2
github_link: ext-best-practices/tutorials/data-upgrade-script.md
---

## Overview

The following tutorial lists the steps needed to create an upgrade script that converts the data stored in the database from the default PHP serialized format to JSON format.

Use this tutorial to create an upgrade script to update your extension to work with Magento 2.2 and above.

## Before you begin

Identify the data you need to convert to JSON in the database.

Your extension *must* convert data in the following cases:

1. The extension stores serialized data provided by a core module that now uses the JSON format.
2. The extension uses the automatic serializing mechanism provided by the Magento framework (i.e. the extension declares `\Magento\Framework\Model\ResourceModel\Db\AbstractDb::$_serializableFields`).

Your extension will continue working in Magento 2.2 and above in the following cases, but we recommend you switch to using the JSON format for security reasons:

1. The extension stores its own serialized data.
2. The extension is responsible for serializing/unserializing data stored in core tables.

### API Overview

This tutorial uses the following framework API in the following ways:

* `\Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverter` - This class converts values for a field in a table from one format to another. 
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory` - This class creates instances of the `FieldDataConverter` with the appropriate data converter implementation.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\DataConverterInterface` - This interface is for classes that convert data between different formats or types of data.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierInterface` - Interface for classes that add a condition to the database query to target specific entries.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory` - This class creates instances of specific implementations of `QueryModifierInterface`.
* `\Magento\Framework\DB\Select\InQueryModifier` - An implementation of the `QueryModifierInterface` that adds an IN condition to a query.

  You can create your own query modifier or use any of the ones listed in the `app/etc/di.xml` file.

* `\Magento\Framework\Module\Manager` - This class checks the status of a module.

## Step 1: Create the basic upgrade script
{:#step-1}

The upgrade script is what gets run during the upgrade step of your extension's [lifecycle][1].
Create the `UpgradeData.php` file in the `Setup` directory inside your extension's root directory.

Inside the file, create the class `UpgradeData` which implements `\Magento\Framework\Setup\UpgradeDataInterface`.

The following is an example of the content for your upgrade script.

{% collapsible Show upgrade script content%}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
namespace Magento\CustomModule\Setup;
 
class UpgradeData implements \Magento\Framework\Setup\UpgradeDataInterface
{
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory
   */
  private $fieldDataConverterFactory;
 
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory
   */
  private $queryModifierFactory;
 
  /**
   * @var \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator
   */
  private $queryGenerator;
 
  /**
   * Constructor
   *
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory $fieldDataConverterFactory
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory $queryModifierFactory
   * @param \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator $queryGenerator
   */ 
  public function __construct(
      \Magento\Framework\DB\FieldDataConverterFactory $fieldDataConverterFactory,
      \Magento\Framework\DB\Select\QueryModifierFactory $queryModifierFactory,
      \Magento\Framework\DB\Query\Generator $queryGenerator
  ) {
      $this->fieldDataConverterFactory = $fieldDataConverterFactory;
      $this->queryModifierFactory = $queryModifierFactory;
      $this->queryGenerator = $queryGenerator;
  }
 
  /**
   * {@inheritdoc}
   */
  public function upgrade(
      \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup,
      \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleContextInterface $context
  ) {
      if (version_compare($context->getVersion(), '2.0.1', '<')) {
        $this->convertSerializedDataToJson($setup);
      }
  }
 
  /**
   * Upgrade to version 2.0.1, convert data for the sales_order_item.product_options and quote_item_option.value
   * from serialized to JSON format
   *
   * @param \Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup
   * @return void
   */ 
  private function convertSerializedDataToJson(\Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup)
  {
      // Upgrade logic here
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 2: Check that the module exists
{:#step-2}

Any module can replace another module in Magento.
If your extension stores data in the tables of another module or it serializes/unserializes data stored in core modules, make sure the application uses the module before executing the upgrade logic.

Use the `\Magento\Framework\Module\Manager` class to check the status of the module your extension depends on.

Add this dependency in the constructor of your upgrade script class.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
if ($this->moduleManager->isEnabled('Magento_Sales')) {
    // Upgrade logic goes here
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 3: Write the conversion logic
{:#step-3}

The conversion logic in your script depends on how your extension stores the serialized data.

If your extension stores serialized data in different ways, you will need to use different conversion methods.

### Step 3a: Convert data in a column for all rows
{:#step-3a}

Use a `FieldDataConverterFactory` to create a `FieldDataConverter` instance with the appropriate data converter.

You can convert data for a column in a table using the code below.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(SerializedToJson::class);

$fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $setup->getConnection(),
    $setup->getTable('my_table'),
    'entity_id',
    'field'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3b: Convert data in specific rows for a field
{:#step-3b}

| option_id | code           | value                         |
| --------- | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 1         | my_option      | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 2         | another_option | &lt;non-serialized string&gt; |
| 3         | my_option      | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |

If you need to convert specific rows in the column, you can use a query modifier to update values using a condition.

The following code sample upgrades the data for options in the `value` column in the `quote_item_option` table with the code `my_option`.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(
    \Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\SerializedToJson::class
);
     
// Convert data for the option with static name in quote_item_option.value
$queryModifier = $this->queryModifierFactory->create(
  'in',
  [
    'values' => [
      'code' => [
        'my_option'
      ]
    ]
  ]
);
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
  $setup->getConnection(),
  $setup->getTable('quote_item_option'),
  'option_id',
  'value',
  $queryModifier
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}


#### Using values from another table in the condition

| option_id | code                  | value                         |
| --------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 1         | my_custom_option_1001 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 2         | another_option        | &lt;non-serialized string&gt; |
| 3         | my_custom_option_1002 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |
| 4         | my_custom_option_1003 | a:1:{s:3:"foo";s:3:"bar";}    |

Use the following approach to construct a query condition with values from another table.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
// Convert data for the option with dynamic name in quote_item_option.value
$select = $setup->getConnection()
  ->select()
  ->from(
    $setup->getTable('catalog_product_option'),
    ['option_id']
  )
  ->where('type = ?', 'my_custom_option');
$iterator = $this->queryGenerator->generate('option_id', $select);
foreach ($iterator as $selectByRange) {
  $codes = $setup->getConnection()->fetchCol($selectByRange);
  $codes = array_map(
    function ($id) {
      return 'my_custom_option_' . $id;
    },
    $codes
  );
  $queryModifier = $this->queryModifierFactory->create(
    'in',
    [
      'values' => [
        'code' => $codes
      ]
    ]
  );
  $fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $setup->getConnection(),
    $setup->getTable('quote_item_option'),
    'option_id',
    'value',
    $queryModifier
  ); 
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3c: Convert nested serialized data
{:#step-3c}

If your module uses nested serialized data in the database, create a custom data converter to hold the logic for converting the data.

The following example is a custom data converter class that converts data in the `product_options` column in the `sales_order_item` table.
This field contains nested serialized data that needs conversion.

Since you cannot assume the format of the data when initially converted, the following example also checks the format and uses the appropriate methods to unserialize and serialize the data using the original format.


{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
namespace Magento\CustomModule\Setup;
 
use Magento\Framework\Serialize\Serializer\Serialize;
use Magento\Framework\Serialize\Serializer\Json;
 
/**
 * Serializer used to convert data in product_options field
 */
class SerializedToJsonDataConverter implements \Magento\Framework\DB\DataConverter\DataConverterInterface
{
    /**
     * @var Serialize
     */ 
    private $serialize;
     
    /**
     * @var Json
     */
    private $json;
     
    /**
     * Constructor
     *
     * @param Serialize $serialize
     * @param Json $json
     */
    public function __construct(
        Serialize $serialize,
        Json $json
    ) {
        $this->serialize = $serialize;
        $this->json = $json;
    }
     
    /**
     * Convert from serialized to JSON format
     *
     * @param string $value
     * @return string
     */
    public function convert($value)
    {
        $isSerialized = $this->isSerialized($value);
        $unserialized = $isSerialized
          ? $this->serialize->unserialize($value)
          : $this->json->unserialize($value);
        if (isset($unserialized['options'])) {
          foreach ($unserialized['options'] as $key => $option) {
            if ($option['option_type'] === 'my_custom_option') {
              $unserialized['options'][$key]['option_value'] = $this->json->serialize(
                $this->serialize->unserialize(
                  $option['option_value']
                )
              );
            }
          }
        }
        if (isset($unserialized['my_option'])) {
          $unserialized['my_option'] = $this->json->serialize(
            $this->serialize->unserialize(
              $unserialized['my_option']
            )
          );
        }
        return $isSerialized
          ? $this->serialize->serialize($unserialized)
          : $this->json->serialize($unserialized);
    }
     
    /**
     * Check if value is serialized string
     *
     * @param string $value
     * @return boolean
     */
    private function isSerialized($value)
    {
        return (boolean) preg_match('/^((s|i|d|b|a|O|C):|N;)/', $value);
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

After creating your custom data converter class, use the `FieldDataConverterFactory` to create a `FieldDataConverter` instance with your custom converter.

{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}

// Convert options in sales_order_item.product_options
$fieldDataConverter = $this->fieldDataConverterFactory->create(
    \Magento\CustomModule\Setup\SerializedToJsonDataConverter::class
  );
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
  $setup->getConnection(),
  $setup->getTable('sales_order_item'),
  'item_id',
  'product_options'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

### Step 3d: Convert data in a multi-database setup
{:#step-3d}

The Magento Enterprise Edition supports storing Quote, Sales and Inventory data in separate databases.
Use the specific connections for each of these modules to update your extension's stored data for the entities of these modules.

The following code sample gets the Sales module connection and uses it during data update.
{% collapsible Show code %}
{% highlight php startinline=true %}
/** \Magento\Sales\Setup\SalesSetupFactory $salesSetup */
$salesSetup = $this->salesSetupFactory->create(['setup' => $setup]);
 
$fieldDataConverter->convert(
    $salesSetup->getConnection(),
    $salesSetup->getTable('sales_order_item'),
    'item_id',
    'product_options'
);
{% endhighlight %}
{% endcollapsible %}

## Related Topics

* [Serialize Library][0]
* [Extension Lifecycle][1]


[0]: {{page.baseurl}}extension-dev-guide/framework/serializer.html "Serialize Library"
[1]: {{page.baseurl}}extension-dev-guide/prepare/lifecycle.html "Extension Lifecycle"
