guides/v2.1/mtf/mtf_entities.md, before:

---
layout: default
group: mtf-guide
subgroup: 50_Entities
title: Magento Testing Framework Entities
menu_title: ENTITIES
menu_node: parent
github_link: mtf/mtf_entities.md
---
<h2>Preface</h2>

Magento Testing Framework entities enable you to create and modify functional tests. 
For example, you want to cover with functional tests the process of creation the widget Catalog Category Link.
To do this you have to create <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">injectable test</a>. As widget functionality is not covered with tests, you need to create widget <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}/mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html">fixture</a>, that is your object for testing. You will describe the test data that will be applied to the widget object in <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture-repo.html">repository topic</a>. You want to automatize creating of Catalog Category Link widget, that requires to have a category. As far creating of new category is out of the scope of your testing, you will use <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_handler.html">handlers</a> to prepare it. To understand what blocks and pages you need in the test, you should perform tests manually. Using <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_block.html">blocks</a> and <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_page.html">pages</a> entities you can create and define blocks and pages objects for tests. When you have all building blocks for the test you can determine steps of <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">injectable test</a>. Any test requires different variations of <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_dataset.html">data sets</a> and corresponding <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_constraint.html">constraints</a>. 

Following is a list of all MTF entities.

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html">Fixture</a>
  
- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture-repo.html">Fixture Repository</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_handler.html">Handler</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_block.html">Block</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_typified-element.html">Typified element</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_page.html">Page</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_constraint.html">Constraint</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_dataset.html">Data set</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">Test case</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_scenariotest.html">Scenario test</a>

Commit message:

Update to 2.0 state:
- Testing added to nav panel.
- Links checked.
- Renamed MTF to FTF
- Added Testing to nav panel

guides/v2.1/mtf/mtf_entities.md, after:

---
layout: default
group: mtf-guide
subgroup: 50_Entities
title: Functional Testing Framework Entities
menu_title: ENTITIES
menu_node: parent
github_link: mtf/mtf_entities.md
---
<h2>Preface</h2>
Functional Testing Framework entities enable you to create and modify functional tests. 
For example, you want to cover with functional tests the process of creation the widget Catalog Category Link.
To do this you have to create <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">injectable test</a>. As widget functionality is not covered with tests, you need to create widget <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}/mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html">fixture</a>, that is your object for testing. You will describe the test data that will be applied to the widget object in <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture-repo.html">repository topic</a>. You want to automatize creating of Catalog Category Link widget, that requires to have a category. As far creating of new category is out of the scope of your testing, you will use <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_handler.html">handlers</a> to prepare it. To understand what blocks and pages you need in the test, you should perform tests manually. Using <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_block.html">blocks</a> and <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_page.html">pages</a> entities you can create and define blocks and pages objects for tests. When you have all building blocks for the test you can determine steps of <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">injectable test</a>. Any test requires different variations of <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_dataset.html">data sets</a> and corresponding <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_constraint.html">constraints</a>. 

Following is a list of all FTF entities.

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html">Fixture</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_overview">Fixture overview</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_create">Create new fixture</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_read">Read and update new fixture</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_repositoy">Add repository to the fixture field</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_source">Add data source to the fixture field</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_merge">Merge fixtures</a>
  - <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture.html#mtf_fixture_extend">Extend fixture</a>
  
  
- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_fixture-repo.html">Fixture Repository</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_handler.html">Handler</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_block.html">Block</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_typified-element.html">Typified element</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_page.html">Page</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_constraint.html">Constraint</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_dataset.html">Data set</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_testcase.html">Test case</a>

- <a href="{{site.gdeurl21}}mtf/mtf_entities/mtf_scenariotest.html">Scenario test</a>
