---
layout: default
group: get-started
subgroup: B_Authentication
title: OAuth-based authentication
menu_title: OAuth-based authentication
menu_order: 2
version: 2.1
github_link: get-started/authentication/gs-authentication-oauth.md
---

<p>Third-party applications that integrate with Magento can use OAuth-based authentication as one of the ways to access Magento Web APIs. This authentication method uses an OAuth 1.0a handshake process.</p>
<p>For details about OAuth 1.0a, see <a href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849">The OAuth 1.0 Protocol</a>.</p>
<p>To configure your third-party application (represented as an Integration in Magento) to use OAuth-based authentication to access Magento's Web APIs, read these sections:</p>
<ul>
   <li><a href="#oauth-process">Integration registration</a></li>
   <li><a href="#http-post">HTTP POST with OAuth credentials</a></li>
   <li><a href="#oauth-handshake">2-legged Oauth Handshake</a>
      <ul>
         <li><a href="#pre-auth-token">Get a request token</a></li>
         <li><a href="#get-access-token">Get an access token</a></li>
      </ul>
   </li>
   <li><a href="#web-api-access">Access the web APIs</a></li>
   <li><a href="#oauth-signature">Generating Oauth Signature</a></li>
   <li><a href="#oauth-error-codes">Oauth Error Codes</a></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="oauth-process">Integration registration</h2>
<p>As a merchant, you must register your external application as an Integration with the Magento Instance. Integration can be registered in the Magento admin (System > Extensions > Integrations) OR </p>
<p>You can register Integration through Magento Connect. After successful registration, Magento Connect generates a configuration file. If you choose not to register the Integration through Magento Connect, you can manually create the configuration file and make it available to merchants.</p>
<p>An Integration contains details like the endpoint that receives Oauth credentials and list of APIs to which access is requested.</p>

<h2 id="http-post">HTTP POST with OAuth credentials</h2>
<p>This is the preceding step before the 2-legged Oauth handshake starts. Only an administrator with access to Integration grid in the backend can initiate this.</p>
<p>An admin may choose to select "Save and Activate" during integration creation or click on "Activate" against a previously saved integration from the Integration grid.</p>
<p>This action submits the credentials to the endpoint specified when creating the Integration</p>
<p>The use of an HTTPS for the endpoint to pass credentials eliminates this risk to a certain extent.</p>
<p>HTTP POST from Magento to the Integration endpoint will contain these attributes:</p>
<ul>
<li>Magento store URL. For example, <code>http://my-magento-store.com/</code>.</li>
<li>oauth_verifier</li>
<li>OAuth consumer key</li>
<li>OAuth consumer key secret</li>
</ul>
<p>Integrations use the passed credentials to get a request token, which is a pre-authorized token. Integrations then use credentials plus the request token to get a long-lived access token.</p>

<h2 id="oauth-handshake">2-legged Oauth Handshake</h2>
<h3 id="pre-auth-token">Get a request token</h3>
<p>This is the first step in the 2-legged Oauth handshake. However, you must use these credentials to get an access token in fewer than three minutes or the credentials are disabled for security reasons. The credentials expiry can be changed from backend by the administrator. As stated previously, it's defaulted to three minutes.</p>
<p>A request token is a temporary token that the user exchanges for an access token. To get a request token from Magento:</p>
<pre>POST /oauth/token/request</pre>
<p>You must include these request parameters in the <code>Authorization</code> request header in the call:</p>
<ul>
   <li><code>oauth_consumer_key</code>. The consumer key value that you retrieve after you register the application.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_nonce</code>. A random value that is uniquely generated by the application.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_signature_method</code>. The name of the signature method used to sign the request. Must have this value: <code>HMAC-SHA1</code>.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_signature</code>. A generated value (signature).</li>
   <li><code>oauth_timestamp</code>. A positive integer, expressed in the number of seconds since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_version</code>. The OAuth version.</li>
</ul>
<p>A valid response looks like this:</p>
<pre>oauth_token=4cqw0r7vo0s5goyyqnjb72sqj3vxwr0h&oauth_token_secret=rig3x3j5a9z5j6d4ubjwyf9f1l21itrr</pre>

<h3 id="get-access-token">Get an access token</h3>
<p>To get an access token from Magento:</p>
<pre>POST /oauth/token/access</pre>
<p>You must include these request parameters in the <code>Authorization</code> request header in the call:</p>
<ul>
   <li><code>oauth_consumer_key</code>. The consumer key value provided after the registration of the application.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_nonce</code>. A random value, uniquely generated by the application.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_signature_method</code>. The name of the signature method used to sign the request. Can have one of the following values: <code>HMAC-SHA1</code>, <code>RSA-SHA1</code>, or <code>PLAINTEXT</code>.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_signature</code>. A generated value (signature).</li>
   <li><code>oauth_timestamp</code>. A positive integer, expressed in the number of seconds since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_token</code>. The <code>oauth_token</code> value, or request token, obtained in <a href="#pre-auth-token">Get a request token</a>.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_verifier</code>. The verification code that is tied to the consumer and request token.</li>
</ul>
<p>A valid response looks like this:</p>
<pre>oauth_token=0lnuajnuzeei2o8xcddii5us77xnb6v0&oauth_token_secret=1c6d2hycnir5ygf39fycs6zhtaagx8pd</pre>
<p>The response contains these fields:</p>
<ul>
   <li><code>oauth_token</code>. The access token that provides access to protected resources.</li>
   <li><code>oauth_token_secret</code>. The secret that is associated with the access token.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="web-api-access">Access the web APIs</h2>
<p>After the Integration is authorized to make API calls, 3rd party applications (registered as Integrations in Magento) can invoke Magento web APIs by using the access token.</p>
<p>To use the access token to make web API calls:</p>
<pre>GET /rest/V1/products/1234</pre>
<p>You must include these request parameters in the <code>Authorization</code> request header in the call:</p>
<ul>
   <li>
      <code>oauth_consumer_key</code>. The customer key value provided after the registration of the application.
   </li>
   <li>
      <code>oauth_nonce</code>. A random value, uniquely generated by the application.
   </li>
   <li>
      <code>oauth_signature_method</code>. The name of the signature method used to sign the request. Valid values are: <code>HMAC-SHA1</code>, <code>RSA-SHA1</code>, and <code>PLAINTEXT</code>.
   </li>
   <li>
      <code>oauth_signature</code>. A generated value (signature).
   </li>
   <li>
      <code>oauth_timestamp</code>. A positive integer, expressed in the number of seconds since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.
   </li>
   <li><code>oauth_token</code>. The <code>oauth_token</code>, or access token, value obtained in <a href="#get-access-token">Get an access token</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="oauth-signature">The OAuth signature</h2>
<p>All OAuth handshake requests and Web Api requests include the signature as part of Authorization header. Its generated as follows:</p>
<p>You concatenate a set of URL-encoded attributes and parameters to construct the signature base string.</p>
<p>Use the ampersand (<code>&</code>) character to concatenate these attributes and parameters:</p>
<ol>
<li>HTTP method</li>
<li>URL</li>
<li><code>oauth_nonce</code></li>
<li><code>oauth_signature_method</code></li>
<li><code>oauth_timestamp</code></li>
<li><code>oauth_version</code></li>
<li><code>oauth_consumer_key</code></li>
<li><code>oauth_token</code></li>
</ol>

<p>To generate the signature, you must use the HMAC-SHA1 signature method.
   The signing key is the concatenated values of the consumer secret and token secret separated by the ampersand (<code>&</code>) character (ASCII code 38), even if empty. You must use parameter encoding to encode each value.
</p>

<h2 id="oauth-error-codes">OAuth error codes</h2>
<p>When the third-party application makes an invalid request to Magento, the following OAuth-related errors can occur:</p>
<table style="width:100%">
   <tr bgcolor="lightgray">
      <th>HTTP code</th>
      <th>Error code</th>
      <th>Text representation</th>
      <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>400</td>
      <td>1</td>
      <td>version_rejected</td>
      <td>The oauth_version parameter does not correspond to the "1.0" value.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>400</td>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>parameter_absent</td>
      <td>A required parameter is missing in the request. The name of the missing parameter is specified additionally in the response.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>400</td>
      <td>3</td>
      <td>parameter_rejected</td>
      <td>The type of the parameter or its value do not meet the protocol requirements (for example,  array is passed instead of the string).</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>400</td>
      <td>4</td>
      <td>timestamp_refused</td>
      <td>The timestamp value in the oauth_timestamp parameter is incorrect.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>nonce_used</td>
      <td>The nonce-timestamp combination has already been used.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>400</td>
      <td>6</td>
      <td>signature_method_rejected</td>
      <td>The signature method is not supported. The following methods are supported: HMAC-SHA1.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>7</td>
      <td>signature_invalid</td>
      <td>The signature is invalid.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>8</td>
      <td>consumer_key_rejected</td>
      <td>The Consumer Key has incorrect length or does not exist.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>9</td>
      <td>token_used</td>
      <td>An attempt of authorization of an already authorized token or an attempt to exchange a not temporary token for a permanent one.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>10</td>
      <td>token_expired</td>
      <td>The temporary token has expired. At the moment, the mechanism of expiration of temporary tokens is not implemented and the current error is not used.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>11</td>
      <td>token_revoked</td>
      <td>The token is revoked by the user who authorized it.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>12</td>
      <td>token_rejected</td>
      <td>The token is not valid, or does not exist, or is not valid for using in the current type of request.</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>401</td>
      <td>13</td>
      <td>verifier_invalid</td>
      <td>The confirmation string does not correspond to the token.</td>
   </tr>
</table>

<h2>Next step</h2>
<ul>
   <li><a href="{{ site.gdeurl21 }}/get-started/gs-web-api-request.html">Step 2. Construct a request</a></li>

</ul>
<h2>Related topic</h2>
<ul>

   <li><a href="{{ site.gdeurl21 }}extension-dev-guide/service-contracts/service-to-web-service.html">Configure services as web APIs</a></li>
</ul>
