---
group: release-notes
title: Adobe Commerce 2.4.3-p2 Release Notes
---

{{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.3-p2 is a security release that provides seven security fixes that enhance your {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.3 or {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.4.3 deployment. It provides fixes for vulnerabilities that have been identified in the previous release ({{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.3 and {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.4.3).

{:.bs-callout-info}
Releases may contain backward-incompatible changes (BIC). To review minor backward-incompatible changes, see [BIC reference]({{page.baseurl}}/release-notes/backward-incompatible-changes/reference.html). (Major backward-incompatible issues are described in [BIC highlights]({{page.baseurl}}/release-notes/backward-incompatible-changes/index.html). Not all releases introduce major BICs.)

## What's in this release?

This security patch includes:

*  All hotfixes that have been released for the preceding patch release
*  Security enhancements
*  Two security bug fixes. Fixes for externally reported vulnerabilities are documented in the [Adobe Security Bulletin](https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/magento/apsb21-86.html).

### Hotfixes included in this release

{{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.3-p2 includes all hot fixes that have been released for {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.3-p1. These patches include:

*  `MC-43048__set_rate_limits__2.4.3.patch`. This patch addresses an issue where the Web API is unable to process a message that contains more than 20 items in the array in Adobe Commerce 2.4.3 deployments. See the [Web API unable to process requests with more than 20 items in array](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4406893342093-Web-API-unable-to-process-requests-with-more-than-20-items-in-array) Knowledge Base article.

*  `MDVA-43395_EE_2.4.3-p1_COMPOSER_v1.patch` and `MDVA-43443_EE_2.4.3-p1_COMPOSER_v1.patch`. These security patches address an arbitrary code execution vulnerability. See [Security updates available for Adobe Commerce APSB22-12](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4426353041293-Security-updates-available-for-Adobe-Commerce-APSB22-12) Knowledge Base article.

* `AC-384__Fix_Incompatible_PHP_Method__2.3.7-p1_ce.patch`. This patch addresses a fatal PHP error that occurred during upgrade. See the [Adobe Commerce upgrade 2.4.3, 2.3.7-p1 PHP Fatal error Hotfix](https://support.magento.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408021533069-Adobe-Commerce-upgrade-2-4-3-2-3-7-p1-PHP-Fatal-error-Hotfix) Knowledge Base article. 

### Security highlights

Security improvements for this release improve compliance with the latest security best practices, including:

*  Integration tokens can no longer be used for API Bearer token authentication. Previously, an integration token could be used as a standalone key for token-based authentication. However, this behavior has been disabled by default due to the security implications of a never-expiring access token. The previous behavior can be enabled through the command line or Admin. See [Token-based authentication](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/get-started/authentication/gs-authentication-token.html). <!--- AC-1619--->

*  Session IDs are no longer stored in the database. <!--- AC-522-->

*  OAuth access tokens and password reset tokens are now encrypted when stored in the database. <!--- AC-520 1323-->

*  Validation has been strengthened to prevent the upload of non alpha-numeric file extensions. <!--- AC-479-->

*  Added reCAPTCHA support to coupon codes. <!--- AC-461-->

*  Swagger is now disabled by default when {{ site.data.var.ee }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} are in production mode. <!--- AC-1450-->

*  HTTPS is now enabled by default for the {{ site.data.var.ee }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} storefronts. The **Use Secure URLs on Storefront** and **Use Secure URLs in Admin** settings are enabled by default, and all built-in cookies are now set as secure.  <!--- AC-1173-->

*  The dependency confusion plugin is now required for all {{ site.data.var.ee }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} installations. Previously, this plugin was required for Composer-based installations only. It now permits trusted versions. Merchants can bypass the constraints set in this plugin that prohibit certain combinations of Composer installations. The constraints can be bypassed for trusted versions, and {{ site.data.var.ee }} and {{ site.data.var.ce }} now displays a warning before proceeding with installation.  <!--- AC-501 970-->

*  Developers can now configure the limit on the size of arrays accepted by {{ site.data.var.ee }} RESTful endpoints on a per-endpoint basis. See [API security](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/get-started/api-security.html). <!--- AC-465-->

*  Added mechanisms for limiting the size and number of resources that a user can request through a web API on a system-wide basis, and for overriding the defaults on individual modules. This resolves the issue addressed by `MC-43048__set_rate_limits__2.4.3.patch`. See [API security](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/get-started/api-security.html). <!--- AC-1120-->

## Installation and upgrade instructions

For instructions on downloading and applying security patches (including patch 2.4.3-p2), see [Quick start install]({{site.baseurl}}/guides/v2.4/install-gde/composer.html).

## More information?

For general information about security patches, see [Introducing the New Security Patch Release](https://community.magento.com/t5/Magento-DevBlog/Introducing-the-New-Security-Patch-Release/ba-p/141287).
