---
group: release-notes
title: Magento 2.4.2-p2 Release Notes
---

Magento 2.4.2-p2 is a security-only release that provides 18 security fixes that enhance your Magento 2.4.2 deployment. Merchants can now install time-sensitive security fixes without applying the hundreds of functional fixes and enhancements that a full quarterly release provides. Patch 2.4.2-p2 is a security-only patch that provides fixes for vulnerabilities that have been identified in our previous quarterly release, {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.2 and {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.4.2.

## What's in this release?

*  Eighteen security fixes

*  Three security enhancements

Security-only patches typically include all hotfixes that have been released for the preceding complete release. However, no hot fixes have been released for {{ site.data.var.ee }} 2.4.2 and {{ site.data.var.ce }} 2.4.2.

### Eighteen security fixes

Eighteen security fixes are included in this security patch. See [Adobe Security bulletin](https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/magento/apsb21-64.html).

### Additional security enhancements

Security improvements for this release improve compliance with the latest security best practices, including:

*  A **new Composer plugin** helps prevent dependency confusion and identifies malicious packages with the same names as internal packages on the public package repository. See the [Adobe Releases New Composer Plugin with Magento 2.4.3 Release](https://magento.com/blog/best-practices/adobe-releases-new-composer-plugin-magento-243-release) blog post.

*  **Rate limiting is now built-in** to Magento APIs to prevent denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Web APIs now impose restrictions on the size or number of resources that can be requested by a client/user. <!--- MC-35358-->

*  **ReCAPTCHA  coverage has been extended** to include:

   *  Web APIs that have corresponding HTML pages are covered through ReCAPTCHA. (This excludes web APIs that are accessed by integrations.) ReCAPTCHA coverage protects endpoints from spam attacks. When web APIs are accessed by a third-party integration service that uses OAuth, ReCAPTCHA is disabled.<!--- MC-34472-->

   *  The Place Order storefront page and payment-related web APIs. ReCAPTCHA protection for these pages is disabled by default and can be enabled from the Admin. This coverage adds an anti-brute force mechanism to protect stores from carding attacks.

## Installation and upgrade instructions

For instructions on downloading and applying security-only patches (including patch 2.4.2-p2), see [Quick start install](http://127.0.0.1:4000/guides/v2.4/install-gde/composer.html).

## More information?

For general information about security-only patches, see the Magento DevBlog post [Introducing the New Security-only Patch Release](https://community.magento.com/t5/Magento-DevBlog/Introducing-the-New-Security-only-Patch-Release/ba-p/141287).