guides/v2.1/payments-integrations/vault/vault-intro.md, before:

---
layout: default
group: payments-integrations
subgroup: vault
title: Vault Integration in Magento2
menu_title: Vault Integration
menu_order: 10
menu_node: parent
version: 2.1
github_link: payments-integrations/vault/vault-intro.md
---

In this section you can find information about what is Vault and how to integrate it to existing payments methods.

The Vault provides mechanism to store customer credit cards on the trusted payments gateways (Braintree, PayPal) instead own servers.
This way is more secure and allow to save by store credit card details without any customer sensitive data.

The main features are:

* Configurable
* Easy to add Vaulting for existing payment method
* Customizable
* Allow to store credit card details without sensitive data

The [Magento Vault]({{site.mage2100url}}app/code/Magento/Vault) is implemented using the [Payment Gateway]({{site.gdeurl}}payments-integrations/bk-payments-integrations.html) and
can be easily configured or extended in the same way as payment method based on the _Payment Gateway_.

The next topics will be focused on the Vault payment configuration, usage and customization:

 - [Vault Payment Configuration]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/configuration.html)
 - [Token UI Component Provider]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/token-ui-component-provider.html)
 - [Customer Stored Payments]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/customer-stored-payments.html)
 - [Admin Integration]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/admin-integration.html)

Commit message:

MAGETWO-59813: Create Documentation on How to Create New Vault method
 - Added details about Vault enabler and payment token

guides/v2.1/payments-integrations/vault/vault-intro.md, after:

---
layout: default
group: payments-integrations
subgroup: vault
title: Vault Integration in Magento2
menu_title: Vault Integration
menu_order: 10
menu_node: parent
version: 2.1
github_link: payments-integrations/vault/vault-intro.md
---

In this section you can find information about what is Vault and how to integrate it to existing payments methods.

The Vault provides mechanism to store customer credit cards on the trusted payments gateways (Braintree, PayPal) instead own servers.
And according to [PCI compliance](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/) Magento does not store card details like: number,
CVV, expiration date or any other private data for Vault payments only data available from payment providers.

The main features are:

* Configurable
* Easy to add Vault implementation for existing payment method
* Customizable
* Allow to store credit card details without sensitive data
* Each payment method can have own Vault (if payment processor supports cards storing)

The [Magento Vault]({{site.mage2100url}}app/code/Magento/Vault) is implemented using the [Payment Gateway]({{site.gdeurl}}payments-integrations/bk-payments-integrations.html) and
can be easily configured or extended in the same way as payment method based on the _Payment Gateway_.
If you already have worked with _Magento Payment Gateway_, you would easily understand common principles and how to use
it in your custom payment integrations.

Next diagram shows main Vault interaction flow and how it interacts with _Magento Sales Management_ and existing payment integration:
![Vault Interaction]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/payments-integrations/vault_interaction_flow.png)

As you can see, this diagram very similar to [Payment Gateway interaction flow]({{site.gdeurl21}}payment-integrations/payment-gateway/payment-gateway-intro.html), the main difference
is now Vault chooses needed command and when calls this command from _Payment Gateway_ implementation.

The next topics will be focused on the Vault payment configuration, usage, customization and will describe how to add new Vault 
implementation to existing payment integration based on _Payment Gateway_:

 - [Vault Payment Configuration]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/configuration.html)
 - [Vault Enabler]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/enabler.html)
 - [Payment Token]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/payment-token.html)
 - [Token UI Component Provider]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/token-ui-component-provider.html)
 - [Customer Stored Payments]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/customer-stored-payments.html)
 - [Admin Integration]({{site.gdeurl21}}payments-integrations/vault/admin-integration.html)
