guides/v2.0/mtf/features/parallel_execution.md, before:

---
layout: default
group: mtf-guide
subgroup: 45_Features
title: Parallel execution flow with the Functional Testing Framework
menu_title: Parallel execution flow
version: 2.0
github_link: mtf/mtf_features/parallel_execution.md
---

<h4>Contents</h4>

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview

Parallel execution is applicable for test suites only. It decreases the time of testing due to distribution of test cases into multiple threads. A test case cannot be split between different threads. Parallel execution can use one or more copies of the Magento application under test (Magento instances).

A general mechanism is:

1. The FTF creates the list of all test cases in a test suite.
2. The FTF creates the required quantity of sessions corresponding to the quantity of threads defined in `<magento2>/dev/tests/functional/phpunit.xml`.
3. The FTF distributes test cases between sessions. When a sessions is free, a new test case from the queue runs.

Comparatively to the common testing flow

![Common flow image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_common_dia.png){:width="150px"}

you can run a test suite using parallel execution flow with one Magento instance

![Parallel execution flow with one instance image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_parallel_one_dia.png){:width="400px"}

or run a test suite using parallel execution flow with multiple Magento instances.

![Common flow and Parallel execution flow image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_parallel_multi_dia.png){:width="400px"}

## Setup parallel execution

To setup a parallel execution flow, add Magento instances to `<magento2>/dev/tests/functional/phpunit.xml` in the following format:

{%highlight xml%}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_instances" value="<quantity of the Magento instances>" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_<index number of the Magento instance>" value="<frontend URL of the Magento instance>" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_<index number of Magento instance>" value="<backend URL of the Magento instance>" />
    ...
</php>

{%endhighlight xml%}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning">
    <p>The default elements <code>"app_frontend_url"</code> and <code>"app_backend_url"</code> must be added obligatory. Otherwise FTF returns an error. The default instances are ignored if <code>"app_instances"</code> element is present.</p>
</div>

### Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance

Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance should be used with a caution. In this mode, test cases are executed simultaneously and can conflict with each other (for example, when different tests set the same parameter in different states).

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning">
    <p>Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance can cause conflict between tests running at the same time.</p>
</div>

The following example shows a setup configuration of the flow with one Magento instance.

{% highlight xml %}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_frontend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />            // The default frontend instance. Ignored by the FTF.
    <env name="app_backend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />     // The default backend instance. Ignored by the FTF.

    <env name="app_instances" value="3" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_0" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_1" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_2" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_0" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_1" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_2" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    ...
</php>

{% endhighlight %}

### Parallel execution flow with multiple Magento instances

The following example shows the setup configuration of the flow with three Magento instances.

{% highlight xml %}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_frontend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />            // The default frontend instance. Ignored by the FTF.
    <env name="app_backend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />     // The default backend instance. Ignored by the FTF.

    <env name="app_instances" value="3" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_0" value="http://example_1.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_1" value="http://example_2.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_2" value="http://example_3.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_0" value="http://example_1.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_1" value="http://example_2.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_2" value="http://example_3.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    ...
</php>

{% endhighlight %}

## Run parallel execution flow

To run parallel execution flow, you must configure and run a test suite and corresponding Magento instances.

Run a test suite:

{% highlight bash %}
cd phpunit <magento2>/dev/tests/functional
vendor/bin/phpunit testsuites/Magento/Mtf/TestSuite/InjectableTests.php
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

MAGEDOC-2534: [FTF] Create Test Suite topic - new topic added - links to new topic added to relevant topics - symlinks to topic added

guides/v2.0/mtf/features/parallel_execution.md, after:

---
layout: default
group: mtf-guide
subgroup: 45_Features
title: Parallel execution flow with the Functional Testing Framework
menu_title: Parallel execution flow
version: 2.0
github_link: mtf/mtf_features/parallel_execution.md
---

<h4>Contents</h4>

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview

Parallel execution is applicable for [test suites] only. It decreases the time of testing due to distribution of test cases into multiple threads. A test case cannot be split between different threads. Parallel execution can use one or more copies of the Magento application under test (Magento instances).

A general mechanism is:

1. The FTF creates the list of all test cases in a test suite.
2. The FTF creates the required quantity of sessions corresponding to the quantity of threads defined in `<magento2>/dev/tests/functional/phpunit.xml`.
3. The FTF distributes test cases between sessions. When a sessions is free, a new test case from the queue runs.

Comparatively to the common testing flow

![Common flow image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_common_dia.png){:width="150px"}

you can run a test suite using parallel execution flow with one Magento instance

![Parallel execution flow with one instance image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_parallel_one_dia.png){:width="400px"}

or run a test suite using parallel execution flow with multiple Magento instances.

![Common flow and Parallel execution flow image]({{site.baseurl}}common/images/mtf_features_parallel_multi_dia.png){:width="400px"}

## Setup parallel execution

To setup a parallel execution flow, add Magento instances to `<magento2>/dev/tests/functional/phpunit.xml` in the following format:

{%highlight xml%}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_instances" value="<quantity of the Magento instances>" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_<index number of the Magento instance>" value="<frontend URL of the Magento instance>" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_<index number of Magento instance>" value="<backend URL of the Magento instance>" />
    ...
</php>

{%endhighlight xml%}

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning">
    <p>The default elements <code>"app_frontend_url"</code> and <code>"app_backend_url"</code> must be added obligatory. Otherwise FTF returns an error. The default instances are ignored if <code>"app_instances"</code> element is present.</p>
</div>

### Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance

Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance should be used with a caution. In this mode, test cases are executed simultaneously and can conflict with each other (for example, when different tests set the same parameter in different states).

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning">
    <p>Parallel execution flow with one Magento instance can cause conflict between tests running at the same time.</p>
</div>

The following example shows a setup configuration of the flow with one Magento instance.

{% highlight xml %}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_frontend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />            // The default frontend instance. Ignored by the FTF.
    <env name="app_backend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />     // The default backend instance. Ignored by the FTF.

    <env name="app_instances" value="3" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_0" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_1" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_2" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_0" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_1" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_2" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    ...
</php>

{% endhighlight %}

### Parallel execution flow with multiple Magento instances

The following example shows the setup configuration of the flow with three Magento instances.

{% highlight xml %}

<php>
    ...
    <env name="app_frontend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/" />            // The default frontend instance. Ignored by the FTF.
    <env name="app_backend_url" value="http://example.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />     // The default backend instance. Ignored by the FTF.

    <env name="app_instances" value="3" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_0" value="http://example_1.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_1" value="http://example_2.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_frontend_url_2" value="http://example_3.com/magento2/index.php/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_0" value="http://example_1.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_1" value="http://example_2.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    <env name="app_backend_url_2" value="http://example_3.com/magento2/index.php/backend/" />
    ...
</php>

{% endhighlight %}

## Run parallel execution flow

To run parallel execution flow, you must configure and run a test suite and corresponding Magento instances.

Run a test suite:

{% highlight bash %}
cd phpunit <magento2>/dev/tests/functional
vendor/bin/phpunit testsuites/Magento/Mtf/TestSuite/InjectableTests.php
{% endhighlight %}

<!-- LINK DEFINITIONS -->

[test suits]: {{page.baseurl}}mtf/features/test_suite.html
