---
group: graphql
title: Protected mutations
---

If CAPTCHA or reCAPTCHA is enabled on pages requiring shopper input, then in most cases, the corresponding mutations that send requests to the Magento server must include a header that contains a value generated by the Google API.
The exception to this policy is that you do not send the value if you specify an integration authorization token in the header of the mutation.

## CAPTCHA

The following table lists the forms that can be configured to require CAPTCHA. Go to **Stores** > **Configuration** > **Customers** > **Customer Configuration** > **CAPTCHA** > **Forms** to enable or disable CAPTCHA on these forms.

The mutation that corresponds to a form is enabled for CAPTCHA must include the HTTP `X-Captcha` header along with the value generated by the Google API.

Form name | Mutation
--- | ---
Add Gift Card Code | `applyGiftCardToCart`
Applying Coupon Code | `applyCouponToCart`
Change password | `changeCustomerPassword`
Checkout/Placing Order | `setPaymentMethodOnCart`, `setPaymentMethodAndPlaceOrder`
Contact Us | Not applicable
Create company | Not applicable
Create user | `createCustomer`
Forgot password | Not applicable
Login | `generateCustomerToken`
Payflow Pro |  `setPaymentMethodOnCart`, `setPaymentMethodAndPlaceOrder`
Send to Friend Form | `sendEmailToFriend`
Share Wishlist Form | Not applicable

## reCAPTCHA

The following table lists the forms that can be configured to require reCAPTCHA. Go to **Stores** > **Configuration** > **Security** > **Google reCAPTCHA Storefront** > **Storefront** to enable or disable CAPTCHA on these forms.

The mutation that corresponds to a form is enabled for CAPTCHA must include the HTTP `X-ReCaptcha` header and the value generated by the Google API.

Field name | Mutation
--- | ---
Enable for Customer Login | `generateCustomerToken`
Enable for Forgot Password | `changeCustomerPassword`
Enable for Create New Customer Account | `createCustomer`
Enable for Edit Customer Account |
Enable for Contact Us | Not applicable
Enable for Product Review | `createProductReview`
Enable for Newsletter Subscription | `subscribeEmailToNewsletter`
Enable for Send To Friend | `sendEmailToFriend`
Enable for PayPal PayflowPro payment form | `createPayflowProToken`
Enable for Braintree payment form |

{:.ref-header}
Related topics

[Construct a request]({{page.baseurl}}/get-started/gs-web-api-request.html)
