guides/v2.0/migration/migration-migrate-settings.md, before:

---
layout: default
group:  migration
subgroup: D_Migrate using the data migration tool
title: Migrate settings
menu_title: Migrate settings
menu_node:
menu_order: 1
version: 2.0
github_link: migration/migration-migrate-settings.md
redirect_from: /guides/v1.0/migration/migration-migrate-settings.html
---

## {{page.menu_title}}
{:.no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

<h2 id="migrate-command-settings">Migrating settings</h2>

You should migrate settings first. This mode migrates stores; websites; and different system configuration like shipping, payment, some tax settings etc.

If necessary, here is how to change how settings are migrated:

1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/apache-user.html">Magento file system owner</a>.
2.	Change to the following directory:

		<your Magento 2 install dir>/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/<edition-to-edition>

	For example, if Magento 2 is installed in `/var/www/html`, you'll find `settings.xml.dist` in one of the following directories:

		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ce-to-ee
		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ee-to-ee
		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ce-to-ce

3. 	Enter the following command to create `settings.xml` from the provided sample:

		cp settings.xml.dist settings.xml
2. Make your changes in `settings.xml`.
3. Make changes to the `<settings_map_file>` tag in `<ce or ee version>/config.xml` to specify the new name of the settings file.

## Run the settings migration command {#migrate-data-cmd}

Before running the command, make the necessary preparations: log in as Magento file system owner, change to the Magento `/bin` directory or make sure it is added to your system PATH, and so on. See the [First steps]({{page.baseurl}}migration/migration-migrate.html#migration-command-run-first) section for more details.

To migrate settings, run:

	bin/magento migrate:settings [-r|--reset] {<path to config.xml>}

where:

* `[-r|--reset]` is an optional argument that starts migration from the beginning. You can use this argument for testing migration

* `{<path to config.xml>}` is the absolute file system path to `config.xml`; this argument is required.

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
<span class="glyphicon-class">
  <p>This command does not migrate all configuration settings. Verify all settings in the Magento 2 Admin before proceeding.</p></span>
</div>

## Next step

* <a href="{{page.baseurl}}migration/migration-migrate-data.html">Migrate data</a>

Commit message:

Updated topics: Migrate settings, Migrate using Data Migration Tool Migrate using Data Migration Tool:- updated the Migration order section for more user-polite text
Migrate settings:
- replaced HTML headings with MD
- added auto-TOC
- added section: Before you start, to be specific about the steps taken
- removed the First steps section, to avoid repetitions
- added description if the Migration completed message

guides/v2.0/migration/migration-migrate-settings.md, after:

---
layout: default
group:  migration
subgroup: D_Migrate using the data migration tool
title: Migrate settings
menu_title: Migrate settings
menu_node:
menu_order: 1
version: 2.0
github_link: migration/migration-migrate-settings.md
redirect_from: /guides/v1.0/migration/migration-migrate-settings.html
---

## {{page.menu_title}}
{:.no_toc}

The `Settings` mode migrates stores, websites, and system configuration like shipping, payment, tax settings, etc.
According to our data migration [order]({{page.baseurl}}/migration/migration-migrate.html#migration_order), you should migrate settings first.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Before you start

### Configure custom migration rules

You may apply your custom rules while migrating settings and thus ignore, rename or change values of the database entities. To do that, specify the rules in the `settings.xml` file. Read the [Settings migration mode]({{page.baseurl}}migration/migration-tool-internal-spec.html#settings-migration-mode) section for more information.

To specify your rules, follow these steps.

1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/apache-user.html">Magento file system owner</a>.
2.	Change to the following directory:

		<your Magento 2 install dir>/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/<edition-to-edition>

	For example, if Magento 2 is installed in `/var/www/html`, you'll find `settings.xml.dist` in one of the following directories:

		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ce-to-ee
		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ee-to-ee
		/var/www/html/vendor/magento/data-migration-tool/etc/ce-to-ce

3. 	To create a `settings.xml` file from the provided sample, run:

		cp settings.xml.dist settings.xml

4. Make your changes in `settings.xml`.

5. Specify the new name of the settings file. To do that, change the `<settings_map_file>` tag in the `<ce or ee version>/config.xml` file.

### Make routine preparations

1. Log in to Magento server as [the file system owner]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/file-sys-perms-over.html).

2. Change to the Magento `/bin` directory or make sure it is added to your system PATH.

See the [First steps]({{page.baseurl}}migration/migration-migrate.html#migration-command-run-first) section for more details.

## Run the settings migration command {#migrate-data-cmd}

To start migrating settings, run:

	bin/magento migrate:settings [-r|--reset] {<path to config.xml>}

where:

* `[-r|--reset]` is an optional argument that starts migration from the beginning. You can use this argument for testing migration

* `{<path to config.xml>}` is the absolute file system path to `config.xml`; this argument is required.

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
<span class="glyphicon-class">
  <p>This command does not migrate all configuration settings. Verify all settings in the Magento 2 Admin before proceeding.</p></span>
</div>

The `Migration completed` message is displayed after the settings are transferred successfully.

## Next step

* <a href="{{page.baseurl}}migration/migration-migrate-data.html">Migrate data</a>
