---
layout: default
group: config-guide
subgroup: Varnish
title: Configure Varnish
menu_title: Configure Varnish
menu_order: 1
menu_node: parent
github_link: config-guide/varnish/config-varnish.md
---


#### Contents
*	<a href="#config-varnish-over">Overview of the Varnish solution</a>
*	<a href="#config-varnish-issues">Known issues</a>
*	<a href="#config-varnish-process">Process overview</a>
*	<a href="{{ site.gdeurl }}config-guide/varnish/config-varnish-install.html">Install Varnish</a>
*	<a href="{{ site.gdeurl }}config-guide/varnish/config-varnish-configure.html">Configure Varnish and your web server</a>
*	<a href="{{ site.gdeurl }}config-guide/varnish/config-varnish-magento.html">Configure Magento to use Varnish</a>
*	<a href="{{ site.gdeurl }}config-guide/varnish/config-varnish-final.html">Final verification</a>

<h2 id="config-varnish-over">Overview of the Varnish solution</h2>
<a href="https://www.varnish-cache.org/" target="_blank">Varnish Cache</a> is an open source web application accelerator (also referred to as an *HTTP accelerator* or *caching HTTP reverse proxy*). Varnish stores (or caches) files or fragments of files in memory; this enables Varnish to reduce the response time and network bandwidth consumption on future, equivalent requests. Unlike other servers like Apache and nginx, Varnish was designed for use exclusively with the HTTP protocol.

Magento 2 supports Varnish versions 3.0.5 or later or any Varnish 4.x version.

For more information about Varnish, see:

*	<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Varnish_%28software%29" target="_blank">wikipedia</a>
*	<a href="https://www.varnish-cache.org/about" target="_blank">About Varnish</a>
*	<a href="https://www.varnish-software.com/book/4.0/chapters/Introduction.html#what-is-varnish" target="_blank">Introduction to Varnish</a>

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
	<ul><li>Except where noted, you must enter all commands discussed in this topic as a user with <code>root</code> privileges.</li>
		<li>This topic is written for Varnish on CentOS. If you're setting up Varnish on Ubuntu, some commands are likely different. Consult Varnish documentation for more information.</li></ul>
</div>

<h2 id="config-varnish-issues">Known issues</h2>
We know of the following issues with Varnish:

*	<a href="https://www.varnish-cache.org/docs/3.0/phk/ssl.html" target="_blank">Varnish does not support SSL</a>

	As an alternative, use SSL with your web server.

*	If you choose to delete the contents of the `<your Magento install dir>/var/cache` directory, you must restart Varnish.
*	Possible error installing Magento:

		Error 503 Service Unavailable
		Service Unavailable
		XID: 303394517
		Varnish cache server

	If you experience this error, edit `default.vcl` and add a timeout to the `backend` stanza as follows:

		backend default {
  			.host = "127.0.0.1";
  			.port = "8080";
  			.first_byte_timeout = 600s;
		}

<h2 id="config-varnish-process">Process overview</h2>
This topic discusses how to use Varnish with Magento. To do that, we provided verification suggestions along the way. 

First, install Varnish and test it by accessing any Magento page to see if you're getting HTTP response headers that indicate Varnish is working.

Next, install the Magento software and use the Magento Admin to create a Varnish configuration file. Replace your existing Varnish configuration file with the one generated by the Admin.

Finally, test everything again by, among other things, making sure there is nothing in your `<your Magento install dir>/var/page_cache` directory. If not, you've successfully configured Varnish with Magento!

#### Next step
<a href="{{ site.gdeurl }}config-guide/varnish/config-varnish-install.html">Install Varnish</a>