_includes/install/trouble/rc_cron.md, before:

<div markdown="1">

### Check your existing crontab
To verify whether or not your crontab is set up:

1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the [Magento file system owner]({{ page.baseurl }}install-gde/prereq/file-sys-perms-over.html).
2.	See if the following file exists:

		ls -al <your Magento install dir>/var/.setup_cronjob_status
		
	If the file exists, cron is set up. 
3.	Get more detail about cron.

	As a user with `root` privileges, enter the following command:

		crontab -u <Magento file system owner name> -l

	For example, on CentOS

		crontab -u magento_user -l

	If no crontab has been set up for the user, the following message displays:

		no crontab for magento_user

	See one of the following sections for a solution to your issue.

### Solution: crontab not set up
To verify your cron jobs are set up properly, see [Set up cron jobs]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/post-install-config.html#post-install-cron").

### Solution: cron running from incorrect PHP binary
If your cron job uses a PHP binary different from the web server plug-in, PHP settings errors might display. To resolve the issue, set identical PHP settings for both the PHP command line and the PHP web server plug-in.

For more information about PHP settings, see [Required PHP settings]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/php-settings.html).

### Solution: cron running with errors
Try running each command manually because the command might display helpful error messages. See [Set up cron jobs]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/post-install-config.html#post-install-cron").

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
	<p>You must run cron at least <em>twice</em> for the job to execute; the first time to queue jobs, the second time to execute the jobs.</p>
</div>

Commit message:

Add note to Magento 1.x release notes

_includes/install/trouble/rc_cron.md, after:

<div markdown="1">

### Check your existing crontab
This section discusses how to see if cron is currently running and to verify whether it's set up properly.

To verify whether or not your crontab is set up:

1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the [Magento file system owner]({{ page.baseurl }}install-gde/prereq/file-sys-perms-over.html).
2.	See if the following file exists:

		ls -al <your Magento install dir>/var/.setup_cronjob_status
		
	If the file exists, cron is set up. If the file _does not_ exist, either you haven't yet installed Magento or cron isn't running. In either case, continue with the next step.
3.	Get more detail about cron.

	As a user with `root` privileges, enter the following command:

		crontab -u <Magento file system owner name> -l

	For example, on CentOS

		crontab -u magento_user -l

	If no crontab has been set up for the user, the following message displays:

		no crontab for magento_user

	See one of the following sections for a solution to your issue.

### Solution: crontab not set up
To verify your cron jobs are set up properly, see [Set up cron jobs]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/post-install-config.html#post-install-cron").

### Solution: cron running from incorrect PHP binary
If your cron job uses a PHP binary different from the web server plug-in, PHP settings errors might display. To resolve the issue, set identical PHP settings for both the PHP command line and the PHP web server plug-in.

For more information about PHP settings, see [Required PHP settings]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/php-settings.html).

### Solution: cron running with errors
Try running each command manually because the command might display helpful error messages. See [Set up cron jobs]({{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/post-install-config.html#post-install-cron").

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
	<p>You must run cron at least <em>twice</em> for the job to execute; the first time to queue jobs, the second time to execute the jobs.</p>
</div>
