guides/v2.0/install-gde/prereq/integrator_install_ee.md, before:

---
layout: default
group: install_pre
subgroup: S_Integrator
title: Get the Magento EE metapackage
menu_title: Get the Magento EE metapackage
menu_order: 4
menu_node: 
version: 2.0
github_link: install-gde/prereq/integrator_install_ee.md
---

To get the Magento EE metapackage:

1.	See [(Integrator) Integrator installation]({{ page.baseurl }}install-gde/prereq/integrator_install.html) first.
1.	Make sure you know your support portal user name and password.

	If you don't remember it, contact Magento Support before you continue.
1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/file-sys-perms-over.html">Magento file system owner</a>.
2.	Change to the web server docroot directory, or to a directory you've configured as a virtual host docroot.
3.	Enter the following command:

		composer create-project --repository-url=https://repo.magento.com/ magento/project-enterprise-edition <installation directory name>

	When prompted, enter your <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/connect-auth.html">authentication keys</a>. Your *public key* is your username; your *private key* is your password.

	The following error indicates your tokens are incorrect:

		  Could not find package magento/project-enterprise-edition with version 2.0.0

	This command creates the project and downloads dependencies for it. The project is in a directory named `<installation directory name>` if you provided the parameter or `project-enterprise-edition` if you did not.

	<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
  		<p>If the following error displays, see <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/trouble/tshoot_composer-fail.html">troubleshooting</a>:</p>
  		<pre>file_get_contents(app/etc/NonComposerComponentRegistration.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory</pre>
	</div>

{% include install/file-system-perms-before.md %}

#### Next step
Install the Magento software:

*	<a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/cli/install-cli.html">Command line</a>
*	<a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/web/install-web.html">Setup Wizard</a>

Commit message:

Add a note about contacting support if download fails
If you magento account is not authorized to download the EE version, you will receive the  Could not find package magento/project-enterprise-edition with version 2.0.0 error message. You have to contact EE support, and have them open it.

guides/v2.0/install-gde/prereq/integrator_install_ee.md, after:

---
layout: default
group: install_pre
subgroup: S_Integrator
title: Get the Magento EE metapackage
menu_title: Get the Magento EE metapackage
menu_order: 4
menu_node: 
version: 2.0
github_link: install-gde/prereq/integrator_install_ee.md
---

To get the Magento EE metapackage:

1.	See [(Integrator) Integrator installation]({{ page.baseurl }}install-gde/prereq/integrator_install.html) first.
1.	Make sure you know your support portal user name and password.

	If you don't remember it, contact Magento Support before you continue.
1.	Log in to your Magento server as, or switch to, the <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/file-sys-perms-over.html">Magento file system owner</a>.
2.	Change to the web server docroot directory, or to a directory you've configured as a virtual host docroot.
3.	Enter the following command:

		composer create-project --repository-url=https://repo.magento.com/ magento/project-enterprise-edition <installation directory name>

	When prompted, enter your <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/prereq/connect-auth.html">authentication keys</a>. Your *public key* is your username; your *private key* is your password.

	The following error indicates your tokens are incorrect:

		  Could not find package magento/project-enterprise-edition with version 2.0.0

	If you receive this error after creating keys as specified in the link above, your account may not be authorized to download the enterprise version of Magento. Please contact support to resolve download issues.

	This command creates the project and downloads dependencies for it. The project is in a directory named `<installation directory name>` if you provided the parameter or `project-enterprise-edition` if you did not.

	<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-info" id="info">
  		<p>If the following error displays, see <a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/trouble/tshoot_composer-fail.html">troubleshooting</a>:</p>
  		<pre>file_get_contents(app/etc/NonComposerComponentRegistration.php): failed to open stream: No such file or directory</pre>
	</div>

{% include install/file-system-perms-before.md %}

#### Next step
Install the Magento software:

*	<a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/cli/install-cli.html">Command line</a>
*	<a href="{{page.baseurl}}install-gde/install/web/install-web.html">Setup Wizard</a>
