---
group: graphql
title: createPayflowProToken mutation
---

The `createPayflowProToken` mutation initiates a Payflow Pro transaction and receives a token. The payload must contain the redirect URLs to use when the transaction is successful, when the customer cancels the transaction, or when an error occurs.

See [Paypal Payflow Pro payment method]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/payment-methods/payflow-pro.html) for detailed information about the workflow of PayPal Payflow Pro transactions.

## Syntax

```graphql
mutation {
  createPayflowProToken(
    input: PayflowProTokenInput
  ) {
    CreatePayflowProTokenOutput
  }
}
```

## Example usage

The following example requests a token in a Payflow Pro transaction.

**Request:**

```graphql
mutation {
  createPayflowProToken(
    input: {
      cart_id: "Po1WkfK7d3vZE0qga610NwJIbxgqllpt"
      urls: {
        return_url: "paypal/action/return.html"
        cancel_url: "paypal/action/cancel.html"
        error_url: "paypal/action/error.html"
      }
    }
  ) {
    response_message
    result
    result_code
    secure_token
    secure_token_id
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createPayflowProToken": {
      "response_message": "Approved",
      "result": 0,
      "result_code": 0,
      "secure_token": "5JRGtIDsaJUuEPq0lR5m9ugqG",
      "secure_token_id": "H3roFRhGjKzxCKr5TlA8mooClBpQxgBY"
    }
  }
}
```

## Input attributes

The `createPayflowProToken` mutation requires the `cart_id` and a set of response URLs.

### PayflowProTokenInput object

The `PayflowProTokenInput` object must contain the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cart_id` | String! | The unique ID that identifies the customer's cart
`urls` | PayflowProUrlInput! | A set of URLs that PayPal uses for callback

### PayflowProUrlInput object

The `PayflowProUrlInput` object contains a set of relative URLs that PayPal will use in response to various actions during the authorization process. Magento prepends the base URL to this value to create a full URL. For example, if the full URL is `https://www.example.com/path/to/page.html`, the relative URL is `path/to/page.html`.

Use this input for Payflow Pro and Payment Pro payment methods.

The `PayflowProUrlInput` object must contain the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cancel_url` | String! | The relative URL of the page that PayPal will redirect to when the buyer cancels the transaction in order to choose a different payment method. If the full URL to this page is `https://www.example.com/paypal/action/cancel.html`, the relative URL is `paypal/action/cancel.html`
`error_url` | String! | The relative URL of the transaction error page that PayPal will redirect to upon payment error. If the full URL to this page is `https://www.example.com/paypal/action/error.html`, the relative URL is `paypal/action/error.html`
`return_url` | String! | The relative URL of the final confirmation page that PayPal will redirect to upon payment success. If the full URL to this page is `https://www.example.com/paypal/action/return.html`, the relative URL is `paypal/action/return.html`

## Output attributes

{:.bs-callout-info}
The `createPayflowProToken` mutation previously returned a `PayflowProToken` object, which has been deprecated. The mutation now returns a `CreatePayflowProTokenOutput` object. The contents of these objects are identical.

The `CreatePayflowProTokenOutput` object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`response_message` | String! | The **RESPMSG** returned by PayPal. If the `result` is `0`, the `response_message` is `Approved`
`result` | Int! | Contains a non-zero value if any errors occurred
`result_code` | Int! |  The **RESULT** returned by PayPal. A value of `0` indicates the transaction was approved
`secure_token` | String! | Secure token generated by PayPal
`secure_token_id` | String! | Secure token ID generated by PayPal
