---
group: cloud-guide
title: Cloud Components for Commerce
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
  - Setup
  - Configuration
---

The [Magento Cloud Components](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-components) package provides extended {{site.data.var.ee}} core functionality for sites deployed on Cloud infrastructure. This package is a dependency for the {{ site.data.var.ct }} package. These release notes describe the latest improvements to this package, which is a component of [{{ site.data.var.csuite }}]({{ page.baseurl }}/cloud/release-notes/cloud-tools.html).

The `{{site.data.var.mcc-package}}` package uses the following version sequence: `<major>.<minor>.<patch>`

The release notes include:

-  {:.new}New features
-  {:.fix}Fixes and improvements

<!--Add release notes below-->

## v1.0.12

Release date: September 13, 2022

-  {:.fix}**Cache warming**—Fixes issue when cache warming hits "not visible individually" pages.<!-- MCLOUD-9134 -->

## v1.0.11

Release date: August 4, 2022

-  {:.fix}**Added Support for Symfony 5.4 compatibility**—Fixes for compatibility with Symfony 5.4.<!-- AC-3550 -->

## v1.0.10

Release date: March 10, 2022

-  {:.new}**Support PHP 8.1**—Added support for PHP 8.1 and dropped support for PHP 7.1.

## v1.0.9

Release date: October 25, 2021

-  {:.fix}**Update Monolog**—Updated the minimum version required for the `monolog` package to `^2.3`.<!-- ACMP-1263 -->

## v1.0.8

Release date: July 29, 2021

-  {:.fix}**Removed trailing slashes from auto-generated URLs**—Removed the trailing slashes from Category Page URLs generated during cache warm up.<!--MCLOUD-7192-->

## v1.0.7

Release date: September 9, 2020

-  {:.new}**Logging improvements**—Reduce the size of the `cache.log` file to improve performance.<!--MCLOUD-6859-->

-  {:.fix}Fixed a type error in the cache configuration values that caused the `php bin/magento cache:evict` CLI command to fail.

## v1.0.6

Release date: August 5, 2020

-  {:.new}**Improve Redis performance**—Added the `./bin/magento cache:evict` command to remove expired Redis keys, which reduces Redis memory usage to improve performance.<!--MCLOUD-6023-->

-  {:.fix}Removed support for *New Relic Logs in Context* to fix a performance issue.<!--MCLOUD-6422-->

## v1.0.5

Release date: June 25, 2020

-  {:.fix}Fixed an issue introduced in {{site.data.var.mcc-package}} version 1.0.4 that caused the flush cache operation to fail during the deploy phase, interrupting the deployment process.

## v1.0.4

Release date: June 25, 2020

-  {:.new}**Implemented New Relic Logs in Context**—Application logs generated by {{site.data.var.ee}} now display in traces within New Relic to improve troubleshooting capabilities.<!--MCLOUD-6029-->

-  {:.new}**Improved logging**—Added logging to track cache invalidation and full reindex events.<!--MCLOUD-6157-->

## v1.0.3

Release date: February 27, 2020

-  {:.fix}Fixed a compatibility issue to support `{{site.data.var.ct}}` 2002.0.x releases that use older PHP versions.

## v1.0.2

Release date: February 6, 2020

-  {:.new}Extended the functionality of the `WARM_UP_PAGES` environment variable to support cache preloading for specific product pages. See the [post-deploy variables]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/env/variables-post-deploy.html#warm_up_pages) topic for a detailed feature description.<!--MAGECLOUD-4444-->

-  {:.fix}Fixed an issue where an invalid store URL causes the post-deploy hook to fail when using the `WARM_UP_PAGES` functionality to populate the cache. This issue occurred only when URL rewrites were disabled.<!-- MAGECLOUD-4094 -->

## v1.0.1

Release date: July 23, 2019

-  {:.fix}Fixed an issue affecting [**WARM_UP_PAGES**]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/env/variables-post-deploy.html#warm_up_pages) functionality that uses a default store URL. Now, if the `config:show:default-url` command cannot fetch a base URL, then the URL from the MAGENTO_CLOUD_ROUTES variable is used.<!-- MAGECLOUD-3866 -->

## v1.0.0

Release date: June 12, 2019

This is the first release of the [`magento/magento-cloud-components`](https://github.com/magento/magento-cloud-components) package, which is a new dependency for `{{ site.data.var.ct }}` package version 2002.0.20 and later.

-  {:.new}Added the capability to use regex patterns to configure the **WARM_UP_PAGES** environment variable to cache single pages, multiple domains, and multiple pages. See [Post-deploy variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/cloud/env/variables-post-deploy.html#warm_up_pages).<!--MAGECLOUD-3258-->
