---
group: graphql
title: getHostedProUrl query
---

The `getHostedProUrl` query is required to complete a transaction when the [PayPal Website Payments Pro Hosted Solution payment method]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/payment-methods/hosted-pro.html) is selected. The query retrieves a PayPal-generated URL that the PWA client connects to, enabling the customer to enter their PayPal credentials and complete the transaction. Run this query after you [set the payment method]({{ page.baseurl}}/graphql/mutations/set-payment-method.html) and [place the order]({{ page.baseurl}}/graphql/mutations/place-order.html).

## Syntax

`getHostedProUrl(input: HostedProUrlInput!): HostedProUrl`

## Example usage

The following query returns the secure URL generated by PayPal:

**Request:**

```graphql
query {
  getHostedProUrl(input: { cart_id: "mwqoyxgbibvgkr3udszfzomxpoj2gmj6" }) {
    secure_form_url
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "getHostedProUrl": {
      "secure_form_url": "https://securepayments.sandbox.paypal.com/webapps/HostedSoleSolutionApp/webflow/sparta/hostedSoleSolutionProcess?hosted_button_id=HSSS-iKGrv2XMlHcGGj8u.hlOHA2AeoQHcIQOvoqTEbvgBlKTLXcS8tAg0BRg1AklvfIhU5ip0g"
    }
  }
}
```

## Input attributes

The `getHostedProUrl` query must contain the following attribute:

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cart_id` | String! | The unique ID that identifies the customer’s cart

## Output attributes

The query returns the PayPal URL that enables the customer to sign in to PayPal and complete the transaction.

Attribute | Data type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`secure_form_url` | String | Secure URL generated by PayPal

## Errors

Error | Description
--- | ---
`Could not find a cart with ID \"xxxxx\"` | The ID provided in the `cart_id` field is invalid or the cart does not exist for the customer.
`The cart isn't active` | The cart with the specified cart ID is unavailable, because the items have been purchased and the cart ID becomes inactive.
`Field HostedProUrlInput.cart_id of required type String! was not provided` | The value specified in the `HostedProUrlInput.cart_id` argument is empty.